title: Insights and Experience In Schedule Crashing
date: 2016-05-21 22:15:59
tags: [project management]
category: Software engineering
---
I believe you should have read a lot of articals that mention about working overtime, staying at office until 11, 12 PM, even 3, 4 AM. You may suddenly assigned some extra works which result in that you need to spend extra time to finish it. In general, if the schedule is tight, put additional staff should be a good choice. However, this may be a bad idea in software development process management. The book [The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mythical_Man-Month) by [Fred Brooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fred_Brooks) describes and explains this idea very well. For me, I experienced two tight schedules: one for one month and another for only ten days. Here I want to share my experience with you. Hope this helps when you are a leader of a software project and are facing with a tight schedule.
<!--more-->
## Avoid Adding A Lot of Manpower
I can clearly remember that, at that time, our lab faced with a terrible schedule. We needed to meet a one month deadline. At that time, I and my partner are two freshmans of OO Lab. My boss (my advising professor) added totally four people as developers into this C# project: me, my lab partner, and additional two university students, and two university students as testers. The interesting thing is, all of these additional manpower are completely new to this project, also new to C# and testing, but we need to stick together and try our best to meet the terrible deadline.
As a full stack developer of [NCU Service Desk website](https://sd.cc.ncu.edu.tw/), I know that developing a product is really **not** that easy. You need to think what user needs, you need to design the user interface, you need to design the structure of modules, you need to design database schemas (not required for this C# project), you need to give implementations, you need to test if your code acts correctly, you need to handle exceptions to deal with unexpected user behavior, you need to pay some time to review and communicate what you have done with your customer / PM. Because I understand a little bit about the difficulty of developing a real product, I wrote an e-mail to my advising professor, describing how dangerous it is, asking for postpond the deadline. Unfortunately, I made my professor unhappy about this. He had a Skype with me and telling me that under this situation, you (me) should try your best to meet the deadline. You should complain only after you tried really hard but finally fail to complete it on time. Furthermore, how hard your task is? Under this situation, we have a teammate (me) keep complaining about the terrible schedule, how can we be successful?
Alright, what I could say that time? I told my professor there's no problem for me to meet the deadline at the end. The result is, I paid every nights on it, even weekends. I usually work unitil midnight. If there're bugs right before the demonstration days, I jumped in and fixed it, although the bugs weren't made by me. I spent my health to ensure the success of project.
Let's ignore the efforts I made. Because of adding so many people into this project, we needed to pay a lot of extra effort on discussing interfaces of modules and how exactly our modules communicate with each other. Also, we needed to teach and train the two QA students how to write test cases, how to design test cases, and how to apply their test cases to our product. Apart from acting as a developer, we needed to act as a mentor as well. Furthermore, we communicated with the company ourselves, too. We learned C#, we traced code, we modified / expanded / wrote new codes, we tested codes, we review codes from university students, we replied e-mail to company, we taught students how to design and apply test cases. We needed to handle so many tasks at the same time. So! how can you expect the quality of the codes I wrote? A lot of ugly type castings, a lot of workarounds were produced by me. I really felt ashamed! My brain fought with what I've actually done because I think codes cannot be written in this way.
In general industries, putting extra manpower works because the communications between workers are easy. However, communication in software industries is not that easy at all. In general industries, Civil Engineering for example, what design diagram shows is what the final product exactly looks like. Doors, windows, walls, and so on. What drawn on the design diagram can be easily related with the goods in real life. But! it is totally different in software industries. How would you explain the structure of the code you write? You may use [UML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Modeling_Language) for help, but the question is, does the drawn UML diagram looks exactly as same as the code that you'll finally produced? No! Codes are not diagrams, codes are not images or pictures as well! This small and easy example indicates the communication effort in software industries is much more heigher than general industries. Programming needs ability of abstraction very much. Because we need to transform the design diagram or design documents into **reusable codes**, but codes are completely different from the disign diagrams or documents, thus make communication difficult in software industries. Adding many human resources into a project will cause the communication effort raises incredibly. Why? I believe I've explained it. So if you are a leader of a project in software industry, please think twice when you're trying to add large amount of additional people for help, especially when the deadline is near or tight.

## Try not to compress the schedule
Stay tuned...