title: "What's the Life A Graduate Student Should Have?"
date: 2016-03-22 07:32:52
tags: [research, life, reflection]
category: Reflection
---
Writing products, having meetings with company, managing servers, handling tasks of teaching assistant, taking courses, reading papers, preparing demonstrations... As a graduate student in NCU, I have so many tasks and works to complete, just like an octupus. Focusing on only one task is impossible. Working days are usually not enough. I have to spent a lot of holidays and weekends on dealing with the tasks that have not been done yet. I have little time to study and research techniques / knowledge I'm interested in, or sharpen my skills of programming. Is this really a valuable life of graduate student? Does it really worth it?
<!-- more -->
My answer is: Maybe, but with suspicions.

## Graduate Life
As a graduate student of my Lab in NCU, as me, there's no chance to have a respite because I have to handle lots of tasks parallelly described above. There're the descriptions of what I'm actually resonsible of in detail...

Our lab maintains a GitLab server for managing our codes. If there's a problem with the GitLab server I'm responsible of, I need to jump in, seeking for possible problems, travelling in the server, and solve the problem in the end.

We have projects. Some of them have cooperation with company or National Research Unit while some of them doesn't. For me, I own two projects that have cooperation with company. As a result, I have deadlines. I need to try my best to meet it.
In one of the two projects I'm resopnsible of, I act as a busboy. Every members have their own main clear tasks, and so am I at first. But after I completed my first main task, if there're tasks that are not in their scope, these tasks belong to me. From the time I joined this project to now, my boss recuited some university students for help. However, it means the cost of communication is risen. I took almost all code reviews and basic tests of the merge-request from the recruited university students. At the same time, I have my own deadlines to meet. And, at the early versions of this project's release, if there're bugs right before release date or demonstration date, only me jumped in and solve it. Fortunately, my every rescue succeeded.
My another project is actually what I love. More precisely, I like all of the project I'm responsible of but the second one, a real time web application, is my true love~ In the second project, I'm the only one person in charge. I go to Taipei for meetings every week, I surveyed possible and appropriate techniques for this project to success, I gave these techniques some tries, had comparisons, and had only 10 days implementation for the prototype with the real time mointoring ability all by my own.

Professor has course to teach. Therefore, we must take teaching assistant as our responsibility. In this course, I have a system to maintain. I have to give patches to this system. We pay one day each week to correct the quiz answers submitted by students. We revise examinations and have experimental implementations to test if our revision goes well. Also, we generate new test cases to test the correctness of students' program. One more thing is, I found there're errors in the quiz reference answers. It will lead to our wrong judgements to the students' quiz submitions. So I examined all of the quizzes in all chapters, record wrong reference answers, and discussed it with professor. This is really a time-consuming and tiring mission.

Don't forget, we are students. I have courses to take, have exams to pass, have homework or projects to be done. I paid all tuition by myself. So I really don't want to fail on any of the courses I've taken.

Furthermore, we recently had one demonstration of our project per week. For each demonstration, we need to spend a lot of time to prepare the environment and have rehearsals before the demonstration comes. This also eat out much time from me, also from my partner.

## Reflection
However, the truth is, act as an octupus makes people lose focus. Productivity decreases significantly when you are responsible for many many tasks simultaneously. Sometimes I felt overwhelmed, sometimes I lost focus because I did not know which task to start first. The code I wrote ususally not so well-organized because there're not only deadlines, but homework or projects from course and tasks from teaching assistant to be done. These days, I felt that I did nothing well. I felt I did everything in a muddle along way. It really makes me feel bad. It makes me feel that I'm a irresponsible person. It just like I did everything in a hurry. I just made it work then throw it away without caring the quality or completeness.
In addition, there's no time for me to level up my concept of Object-Oriented programming. There's no time for me to learn professional design patterns. There's no time for me to try to refactor my code into a more well-organized one, thus force myself to think deep and improve my Object-Oriented thinking. Although I'm a graduate student of Object-Oriented lab, but most of what I've done are not in an Object-Oriented way. Because I'm always chasing the deadline. The only way for me to improve my Object-Oriented thinking is... think while coding. Although it seems I finished so many tasks, actually, I produced a lot of trash in my point of view.
The aspects of my skill improved are only code tracing, debugging, and presentation. But I really lacks the skill of designing, writing codes in an Object-Oriented way, and testing. Especially testing. When you're a member of a project that will eventually be used by real customers, you should write tests to ensure the very basic level of the code quality. Yet, the truth is, I can't. Even if I spent all of my weekends, I'm still unable to write some unit tests for the code I've produced. There're too many tasks, too many missions, too many things waiting for me to accomplish.
Formal engineers contribute themselves into everything inside the project they belong to. Customer engineering, designing, testing, implementing, all their mission lead to one goal - provide what the customer exactly wants and needs and then make money.
As a OO Lab student, in addition to provide what customer needs, we have course to take, we have examinations to pass, we have tasks from teaching assistant to complete. These are missions in different domains so I need to act as an octupus.
The last thing is, my boss give the core research modules to the university students. If you were me, how do you think? We give the core technique modules to non-lab members. So my boss, you leave your graduate students some miscellaneous tasks and give the implementation of core modules out to the people who are not an OO Lab student? I can't agree it. Sorry I'm selfish. I'm unable to understand why you made this assignment and decision. You don't cultivate your lab members, then what's the reason that you accept graduate students? I can't understand!

## Final Words
As the tasks decrease gradually. Hope I can start my travel to the Object-Oriented world. I want to improve my OO-thinking, my testing experience, my design ability, and my maturity of programming. I want to be more professional, as a Object-Oriented lab graduate student. I want to make something remarkable, I want to contribute this world.